# TradeWar_on_Twitter

Years of trade tensions between the world’s two biggest economies have taken a worse turn since the start of 2018. President Donald Trump's "trade war" officially began on March 1 when he announced steep tariffs on steel and aluminium, which were then signed into effect on March 8. The situation escalated since March 22, when U.S. Trade Representative proposed 25 percent duties on Chinese products and China quickly fought back by levying tariffs on $3 billion of U.S. imports. From April 03 onwards, the focus is shifted to Intellectual Property and high-tech industrial products.	

"Trade war" has become a focal topic on social media. I am proposing a project to gain more insights on the trade war through big data analysis with tweets. I propose two directions to work on for this project. First of all, news events related to "trade war" demonstrated great impact on stock market volatility. Market movement is a result of population behavior. Market indices plunged in response to news reflects population's pessimistic opinions over the outcome of a trade war. Twitter, a leading social media platform where people can express their feelings and insights on trending news with low latency, composes a good data source with potential prediction power over the market movement. Secondly, as the tensions escalate over time, more people have come to realize that "trade war" has gone beyond a politic/economic topic, but will closely affect our daily life in the near future. By analyzing the topics that are co-mentioned in tweets with "trade war", I wish to identify the insightful predictions made by the general public that are likely to become true, and provide us a better picture of when and how is the trade war going to affect our life. For example, is there any field of industry that we should avoid in future job hunting, as it may be closely affected by the outcome of the trade war? Can we simply trust the news media that are taking positions and making foresights on the idea of "trade war"? When it comes to making predictions, are the journalists/experts smarter than ordinary people? As the old saying goes, “two heads are better than one”. In the era of big data, we should hear as many voices as possible before reaching a conclusion.

In retrospect, one may be surprised to find out that, sometimes people are able to predict the future correctly. It is based on their backgrounds, experiences, concerns, and the information that they happen to have collected correctly regarding the problem. Just like one tree in a trained random forest model that happens to utilize the correct subset of data available and make the correct decision, I am interested in finding out whether there are such tweets that we can learn from before the future arrives.

Project is still under development. 

XiaoyuZhang_TradeWar_twitterAnalysis.ipynb is the main file to execute. 

*.csv files contain processed tweets to be analyzed by XiaoyuZhang_TradeWar_twitterAnalysis.ipynb 
./figures/ contains the saved figures for this project. 
